you now know about linear regression and
gradient descent the plan from here on
out is to tell you about a couple
important extensions of these ideas
concretely here they are first it turns
out that in order to solve this
minimization problem turns out there's
an algorithm for solving for theta 0 and
theta 1 exactly without needing an
iterative algorithm without needing this
algorithm like gradient descent that we
had to iterate you know multiple times
over so it turns out there are
advantages and disadvantages of this
algorithm that lets you just solve for
theta 0 and theta 1 so basically just in
one shot one advantage is that there's
no longer a learning rate alpha that you
need to worry about and set and so it
can be much faster for some problems
we'll talk about its advantages and
disadvantages later second walls talk
about algorithms for learning with a
larger number of features so so far
we've been learning with just one
feature the size of the hulls and using
that to predict the price so we're
trying to take X and use that to predict
Y but for other learning problems we may
have a larger number of features so for
example let's say that you know not only
the size but also the number of bedrooms
number of floors and the age of home of
these houses and when you want to use
that to predict the price of the houses
in that case maybe we'll call these
features X 1 X 2 X 3 and X 4 so now we
have you know four features I want to
use these four features to predict Y the
price of the house it turns out with all
of these features and inform them in
this case it turns out that with
multiple features becomes it becomes
harder to plot or to visualize the data
so for example you'll be try to plot
this type of data set maybe we'll have
the vertical axis be the price and maybe
we can have one axis here and another
one here with this axis is the size of
the house and that axis is the number of
bedrooms you know but this is just
plotting right my first two features
size the number of bedrooms and when we
have these additional features and there
I just don't know how to plot all of
these data right because
need like a 4-dimensional or a five
dimensional figure they don't really
know how to plot you know something more
than like a three-dimensional figure
like like what I have over here also as
you can tell the notation starts to get
a little more complicated right so
rather than just having Excel features
we now have x1 through x4 and we're
using these subscripts to denote my four
different features it turns out the best
notation to keep all of this straight
and to understand what's going on with
the data even when we don't quite know
how to plot it it turns out that the
best notation is the notation of linear
algebra linear algebra gives us a
notation and a set of things or a set of
operations that we can do with matrices
and vectors for example here's a matrix
where the columns of this matrix are the
first column is the sizes of the four
houses the second column was the number
of bedrooms that's the number of floors
and that was the age of the home and so
a matrix is this block of numbers that
lets me take all of my data all of my
X's all of my features and organize them
efficiently into sort of one big block
of numbers like that and here is what we
call a vector in any algebra where the
phone numbers here are the prices of the
four houses that we saw on their
previous slide so in the next set of
videos what I'm going to do is do a
quick review of linear algebra if you
haven't seen matrices and vectors before
so if all of this everything on the
slide is brand new to you or if you've
seen linear algebra before but it's been
a while so you aren't completely
familiar with it anymore then please
watch the next set of videos and I'll
quickly review the linear algebra you
need in order to implement and use the
more powerful versions of linear
regression it turns out linear algebra
isn't just useful for linear regression
models but these ideas are matrices and
vectors will be useful for helping us to
implement and actually get
computationally efficient
implementations for many later machine
learning models as well and as you can
tell these sorts of matrices and vectors
will give us an efficient way to start
to organize large amounts of data when
we're
of logic training sites so in case in
case you're not familiar with linear
algebra or in case linear algebra seems
like a complicated or scary concept with
moves never seen it before don't worry
about it it turns out in order to
implement machine learning algorithms we
need only the very very basics of linear
algebra and you'll be able to very
quickly pick up everything you need to
know in the next few videos concretely
to decide if you should watch the next
set of videos here are the topics I'm
going to cover talk about what are
matrices and vectors and talk about how
to add subtract multiply matrices and
vectors and talk about the ideas of
matrix inverses and transposes and so if
you're not sure you should watch the
next set of videos take a look at these
two things so if you think you know how
to compute this quantity that's a matrix
transpose x in other matrix you think
you know if you've seen this stuff
before if you know how to compute the
inverse of matrix times the vector minus
the number of times another vector if
these two things look completely
familiar to you then you can safely skip
the optional set of videos on linear
algebra but if these concepts if you
have just slightly uncertain what you
know these blocks of numbers what these
matrices and numbers mean
then please take a look at the next set
of videos and it wickley teach you what
you need to know about linear algebra in
order to program machine learning
algorithms and deal with large amounts
of data